In this section, I'm going to look at how
you can get features from text that you
can use inside discriminative models for
various kinds of classification tasks.
So in these slides and in most maxent
work, by feature what we're meaning
is an elementary piece of evidence
that links between what we observe,
which is the data piece d and
a category c that we want to present.
So a feature is a function
with a bounded real value.
So what we can do is write
that we have a feature,
f, which is mapping from
the space of classes and
pieces of data onto a real number.
So here then are a couple of examples
of the kind of features that we have.
So let's look at these features, with
respect to some particular pieces of data.
Okay, so the first feature,
the purple feature,
is saying that the class' location.
So in these example pieces of data,
I'm assuming that I'm looking at the last
word in the sequence, and then the class
above it is being shown in orange.
So the feature picks out examples
where the class is location,
so that's the two pieces
of data on the left.
And the previous word is in,
and the word is capitalized.
So all three of those criteria are true
of these two pieces of data, but
aren't true of the two pieces of data on
the right, really, for multiple reasons.
Both because the class is wrong, and
the preceding word is also wrong.
Okay, so then if we go on and
look at the second feature.
It's again saying the class' location,
and for the rest of the feature,
we can put in just anything that
seems like it'll be useful.
So we might think it's a useful feature
to know whether a word has in it,
something like accent and
Latin characters, so
it's not just plain a to z, but
has some other characters in there.
So here we've sort of noticed that
some names has things like accented
letters in them.
So this feature then will be
true of this piece of data, and
again it's not true of any
of the other pieces of data.
Okay, so then let's look at feature three.
So feature three says,
the class is DRUG and the word ends in c.
So, that's a feature that's true of this
piece of data, but not any of the others.
So in general, that that's what's
happening, we're imagining for
our training we will have data which
already gives us the right answers.
There will be some words, and
that they will have a class.
And so in this example, we then also
assuming that we have a particular
position that we're looking at,
so that this is the basic word w.
And then when we want to we can refer
to something like word- 1 here,
to ask features about other nearby words.
And so then our feature will then
ask some question about the class.
Is it a drug?
And some question about the words,
where normally it won't sort of just
ask for the complete sequence of words.
But might ask for features of them,
like an individual word,
or something in-between.
Like in this example we gave,
where we're just looking at whether
the word ends in the letter c.
At that point, the next thing
is that the model will assign
to each feature a weight,
where the weight is a real number,
so it might be something like 0.3 or- 0.2.
So this isn't the value of the feature,
this is the weight of the feature.
And so a positive weight votes that
this configuration is likely correct.
It's the kind of thing
that happens in real text.
So that's something like for
feature 1, well if the preceding word
is in, and the word is capitalized,
well that's indeed a good indicator
that the word is a location.
So if a feature one that matches
these two pieces of data,
we'd expect it to have a positive weight.
Then the other choice is you
can have a negative weight.
So the negative weight votes that
a configuration is likely incorrect.
So we could have another feature, for
example, which was kind of like feature 1,
but
might be feature 14,
which said the class = DRUG,
and the rest of
the condition was the same.
And so that feature would match
a different classification
where we had in Arcadia.
And we were saying Arcadia was a drug.
And feature 14 would
match that configuration.
But what we'd like to say,
is that that's unlikely to be correct, and
we could express that by giving
a negative weight like- 0.6 to it.
Later on when we're working with features,
we can crucially make
use of two expectations.
So an expectation is an actual or
predicted count of a feature firing.
And we have two expectations,
one is from our supervised data, we can
just actually look how often a particular
feature is satisfied by pieces of data.
And so we'll refer to that
as the empirical count or
the empirical expectation of the feature.
So that's this guy.
We simply just look through every piece
of data that we're trading off and
we ask,
is the feature true of that piece of data?
And we count the number
of times it's true,
and that's our empirical expectation.
The other expectation is the model
expectation of the feature.
We'll look at this more in a minute, but
what we're going to have is a probability
distribution over pairs
of a class on a data set.
And so what we're going to do
is using that distribution,
then we're going to consider all
the classes and pieces of data.
And then say, well given that,
what is the expected value of
f based on the probabilities of
different configurations, and
what the value of f is for
those configurations.
In the particular case of natural
language processing applications,
what we find is that usually a feature
is of a very particular form.
So the feature consists of
firstly an indicator function,
a yes/no boolean matching function
of properties of the input.
And secondly,
it specifies a particular class.
So the arbitrary feature is just
a feature of a class data pair,
and it's returning some real number.
But in practice the features that we
define, have this very particular form.
So we have a matching
predicate against the data, so
that's something like ends in the letter
c and there's a capitalized word.
And that's conjoined together with saying,
that particular class is matched.
And the return value of the feature
can in general, be a real number.
But our features here,
logical boolean predicates,
and so
their return value is either 0 or 1.
Now every feature that we're going
to present in this class is of
exactly this form, and
that's true of 99% of how these
features have been used in
natural language processing work.
And so we can equally say that phi(d)
is a feature of the data d when for
each class, cj, the conjunction phi(d) and
c = cj is a feature of a class data pair.
That's our fi feature pair.
So a lot of the time what we'll find,
is that we'll think in term
of these phi(d) features.
But you should remember,
that the actual math and
programming we write is going to be
working in terms of these fi features,
where this i index is being particular
to both matching a data predicate,
and some particular class.
Nevertheless, a good way
to think about things,
is that each features identifies a subset
of the data and suggests a label for it.
And that's what we saw
in the examples before.
In feature-based models, the decision
about a data point is based entirely on
the features that
are active at that point.
So let's look at a couple of examples,
Ven OP applications and
the kind of features that get defined for
them.
One of the simplest cases
is text categorization.
So we have an article which has data like,
stocks hit a yearly low,
and it's assigned some topical class here,
business.
And so typically in these kind of
text categorization applications,
the features are just the words
that occur in the articles.
So each word type that occurs
in the article will be a feature
of a phi feature and so
then a complete f feature will be
the word stocks occurred,
and the class is business.
Or the word stocks occurred,
and the class is sports.
Word-sense disambiguation is the task of
determining the sense of the words in
context.
So for example, whether usage of the word
bank is referring to the bank of a river
or to the financial institution.
In making a classifier that
decides senses of words,
in practice it comes out kind of
like a text categorization example,
where we regard the context of the word as
this little mini document around the word.
So here we have the observed data,
the sequence of words
is the word we want to disambiguate, and
here it has the particular class and
the training data,
this is an instance of the money one.
So we could just use the same
kind of features as here,
a bag of words, set of features of
the words around in the context.
But we can also use more particular
features that look at particular things
in the context.
So we could have a feature that says,
the word before is restructure,
the word afterwards is debt.
And we could have other kinds
of features if we wanted to too,
like we can have a feature that
the length of the sentence is 12.
You should really think that you can make
features in any way you want that'll be
good in predicting what the class is.
And commonly in practice what you'll find
is word sense disambiguation systems,
have both bag of words features like this,
and they have
features that ask about particular words
that are adjacent on the left and right.
And it's been shown that actually
on both of those types is useful.
Here's one more example that's slightly
different, which is when we're working out
the part of speech of a word in context,
whether it's a noun or a verb.
And so here's fall which can
be a verb to fall down, or
a noun, and in this particular
case its actual class is noun.
So if we're wanting to do
part of speech taking,
we're likely to want to know particular
things about a very narrow context,
and things in particular positions.
So we'd want to know what
word it is that we're taking,
the current word is fall,
it's likely to be a good indicator,
whether it's a verb or
a noun what the previous word is.
And this example points in the direction
of when we want to do a sequence
of classifying decisions, where we
actually want to classify each word.
And that's a topic that we'll return
to later when we show how to build
sequence models.
But the easiest way to think about
it is that we're just going to give
each word a part of speech in turn.
So once we're deciding, this word's
part of speech, we can assume that we've
already given parts of speech
to the words that proceed it.
So we can also use as a feature for
deciding this word's part of speech,
what the part of speech
of the previous word was.
And so this is the feature here that's
saying the previous tag is adjective.
So looking at a couple of
examples in more detail,
let's just go through a couple of bits
of work on feature based classifiers.
So Zhang and Oles was one well known piece
of work for doing text categorization.
And so the features that they used
are precisely bag of words features.
So the features are precisely presence
of a word in the document, and
the document class.
They actually don't use every
word that occurs in the document.
And so a common refinement is to do
a process of feature selection, where you
pick out a particular subset of words that
are deemed to be reliable indicators.
You might be dropping very rare words or
also dropping extremely common words that
are viewed to be semantically empty.
The test set that they use is a well
known text categorization dataset,
the Reuters newswire dataset.
And here just some indicative
results of what they find.
So they build a Naive Bayes model, which
gets 77% F1 across the different classes.
And then they compare several
discriminative classifiers.
They build a linear regression model.
Now despite the fact that linear
regression models shouldn't be right for
doing these kind of categorical
text prediction tasks because of
various reasons, such as the numbers going
out of bounds and not being probabilities.
Actually what you can
see is that the linear
regression works already much
better than the Naive Bayes model.
In fact, what they find is it works almost
as well as the logistic regression model.
The logistic regression model,
the fraction beta, but
actually, not very much.
They also train a support vector machine
model, which is another very common and
popular discriminative classifier,
used widely for text base models,
like text categorization.
It's performance is almost
indistinguishably different from
the logistic regression model.
And, so that's something interesting
that comes out in a lot of recent work.
So you can see that the big difference
here is between the Naive Bayes model and
all of the discriminant models.
All the discriminant
models do much better, and
in turn the differences between
the discriminative models are very small.
And so a lot of the time,
yes you want to use an appropriate model,
but it doesn't actually matter
very much which model you choose.
What's going to matter much more is the
quality of the features that you define.
Another thing that the paper emphasises
that we'll come back to, is the importance
of regularization or smoothing for
successful use of discriminative models.
That was something that wasn't used
in much of the very early NLP and
IR work on discriminative models
that turns out to be very important.
There are many places where you
can use a maxent classifier.
It's whenever you have some data points
that you want to assign to one of a number
of classes.
So let's just look through
a few more examples.
So here's a fairly straightforward one.
Which is where, what you want to do is
decide whether a period is the end of
sentence or an abbreviation, so you might
have something like i.e., you choose.
And we have this period here, and
what we'd like to say is that this
period isn't the end of sentence.
And we can kind of think that there
are some ways that we could tell that
by seeing this abbreviation beforehand.
And so we'll be wanting to make features,
then look at the stuff to the left
of the period, and perhaps also
things to the right of the period such as,
this word isn't capitalized.
We've already talked a bit
about sentiment analysis,
as to whether someone is giving a positive
or negative review, and we can make
a discriminative classifier for
that by putting in features for the words.
And perhaps not the kinds of
features like word pair features,
different parts of speech and
things like that.
Prepositional phrase attachment is
the tasks of working out whether
a prepositional phrase, like with a beard
is modifying the particular noun or verb.
And that's getting us into
the realm of syntactic decisions.
Or more in general one way,
in general to make parsing decisions for
the structure of the sentence,
is to build classifiers for
the particular decisions that
are involved in making the classifier.
Okay, I hope that's given you a good sense
of what the features are that are used in
modern discriminative NLP systems, and
some idea of the kind of applications
to which they've been applied.